#summary pygpslog Documentation.
#labels Featured

= ABOUT =
[http://code.google.com/p/pysgpslog/ pygpslog] is a GPS logger for S60 
smartphones that uses Nokia's internal location and landmarks API and
thus can co-exist with other navigation applications (e.g. Nokia Maps)
running at the same time.

It's features include
  * Record data in standard [http://www.topografix.com/GPX GPX] or [http://www.oziexplorer.com/ OziExplorer] format.
  * Easy marking of waypoints (with or without confirmation).
  * Easy marking of six different track segment types (e.g. speed limits).
  * The usual: Data view, Satellite View, Compass View...
  * Integration with Nokia's landmarks.

But best see the [README#SCREENSHOTS Screenshots] below.

= LICENSE =
  see [LICENSES] and [COPYING]

= REQUIREMENTS =
  * A device running S60 3rd edition.
  * An internal or external GPS device.
  * Python for S60, v1.4.2 or higher
  You may get it from [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=154155 SourceForge].
  If you're new to Python on S60 it's probably better to read the
  [http://wiki.opensource.nokia.com/projects/PyS60 PyS60 Wiki] first.
  * The [http://www.iyouit.eu/portal/Software.aspx LocationRequestor] module (*see below*).
  * The [http://www.iyouit.eu/portal/Software.aspx Landmarks] module (*see below!*).

  * All installation files have to be [https://www.symbiansigned.com Symbian Signed] by yourself in order to be really useful. Please see the [README#INSTALLATION DOCUMENTATION]

The !LocationRequestor module above is packaged with an UID that cannot be
used for Symbian's [https://www.symbiansigned.com/app/page/public/openSignedOnline.do Open Signed]
process. Therefore I'm also making a 
[http://pygpslog.googlecode.com/files/LocationReq_3rd_unsigned.sis re-packaged version]
available here.

Unfortunately, the Landmarks module, as of Mar. 3, 2008, contains a
few bugs that prevent it from working with pygpslog. Until I receive word
from the authors, you may download a [http://pygpslog.googlecode.com/files/Landmarks_3rd_unsigned.sis patched version]
from this site.

In fact, the !LocationRequestor and Landarks modules are not _absolutely_
required to run pygpslog, but the functionality will be severely limited.
Please see [README#OPERATION below].

= CONTACT =
Please leave your comments on the [Contact] wiki page. I will be notified by
e-mail automagically ;-)

= INSTALLATION =
 # Install Python for S60 from [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=154155 SourceForge].
 # If any old version of the !LocationRequestor or Landmarks modules are installed, please uninstall them
 # Get the [http://pygpslog.googlecode.com/files/LocationReq_3rd_unsigned.sis LocationRequestor] module.
 # Get the [http://pygpslog.googlecode.com/files/Landmarks_3rd_unsigned.sis Landmarks] module.
 # Get the [http://code.google.com/p/pygpslog/downloads/list latest version] of pygpslog.
 # If you're not yet, make yourself familiar with [https://www.symbiansigned.com Symbian Signed]. The easiest way by now seems to be [https://www.symbiansigned.com/app/page/public/openSignedOnline.do Open Signed Online].
 # Sign !LocationRequestor, Landmarks and PyGpsLog. The capabilities required are `ReadUserData, WriteUserData, NetworkServices, LocalServices, UserEnvironment, ReadDeviceData, WriteDeviceData, Location` and `SwEvent`. See SymbianSigned.
 # Install to your device
 # Done!
 
I know the signing process is tedious, but this application requires `Location`
capabilities (`SwEvent` might be needed later). To make things worse,
Symbian Signed seems to be in the process of changing their signing procedures.
As of now (Mar. 7, 2008) you're not able to get your own developer certificate
without a valid Publisher ID. But please check yourself at
[https://www.symbiansigned.com Symbian Signed].

In the meantime I'll try to keep some SymbianSigned instructions [SymbianSigned updated].
Please feel free to comment and contribute.

If you _absolutely_ want to avoid Symbian Signed _and_ you have and _external
Bluetooth_ GPS device, you may skip the installation of !LocationRequestor and
Landmarks. In this case _you will not be able_ to share the GPS device
with other applications, and, you cannot use your phone's landmarks in any
way.

= OPERATION =
pygpslog can operate in three different modes. Each mode has it's advantages
and disadvantages. The default mode depends on what you installed during
the [#INSTALLATION installation process].

=== Location Requestor === 
(Preferred method, uses 3rd Party Python module)
==== Pro's: ====
 * GPS can be shared with other applications
 * Very extensive data available.
 * Works with external or internal GPS devices
==== Con's: ====
 * Requires the [http://www.iyouit.eu/portal/Software.aspx LocationRequestor] module.
 * Must be Symbian signed

=== Generic NMEA over Bluetooth ===
==== Pro's: ====
 * Most extensive (and probably precise) data available.
 * Can be used without Symbian Signed.
 * No additional modules required
==== Con's ===
 * Requires an external Bluetooth GPS.
 * GPS cannot be shared with Nokia Maps, Navigator, mgMaps or others.
 
=== Nokia Positioning === 
(uses standard Python module)
==== Pro's: ====
 * GPS can be shared with other applications
 * Works with external or internal GPS devices
 * No additional modules required
==== Con's: ====
 * Severely limited data (no satellite info, ...)
 * Must be Symbian signed
  
= SCREENSHOTS =
In the making...